[DOC-325] [2.21.1] Added ycql-stat-statements and yb_local_tablets (#22564)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/explore/query-1-performance/ycql-stat-statements.md

---
title: Get query statistics using ycql_stat_statements
linkTitle: Get query statistics
description: Track planning and execution statistics for all YCQL statements executed by a server.
headerTitle: Get query statistics using ycql_stat_statements
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: ycql-stat-statements
    parent: query-tuning
    weight: 200
type: docs
---

{{<tabs>}}
{{<tabitem href="../pg-stat-statements/" text="YSQL" icon="postgres" >}}
{{<tabitem href="../ycql-stat-statements/" text="YCQL" icon="cassandra" active="true" >}}
{{</tabs>}}

> Databases can be resource-intensive, consuming a lot of memory CPU, IO, and network resources. Optimizing your CQL can be very helpful in minimizing resource utilization. The `ycql_stat_statements` module helps you track planning and execution statistics for all the YCQL statements executed by a server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Databases can be resource-intensive, consuming a lot of memory, CPU, IO, and network resources. By optimizing your CQL, you can minimize resource use. The `ycql_stat_statements` module helps you track planning and execution statistics for all the YCQL statements executed by a server.
```
